How's that?
I'm breaking down the cell using
a chemically decomposed liquid.
This is the jailbreak of
Chrome the science user!
Impossible!
Chrome's come home!
You escaped by yourself?!
Not bad!
Science is awesome!
You used it to escape prison!
I'm impressed you managed
to keep your science tools.
I thought they would've taken
them when they captured you.
About that...
Taiju helped me out.
He gave me a battery!
I'm ten billion percent sure
there's no way that meathead
could have thought to do that.
Was it Yuzuriha, then?
She'd be the only one left.
But Yuzuriha is busy as hell
on her secret mission.
She's not the kind of woman who would
ditch her duties to do other things.
Yuzuriha's mission?
Wasn't she only infiltrating the enemy
so she could keep in contact
using the cell phone?
Well, what does it matter?
Someone saved me!
What the heck is this
ridiculous gorilla machine?!
Now we don't have to trash
our adorable Steam Gorilla!
Yeah.
Having the Steam Gorilla to storm the enemy
at the site of the final battle is huge.
The site...
...of the final battle?
The battle will be to
capture the miracle cave.
If we have access to the nitric
acid brewing in the cave,
we can make revival fluid,
and we can make gunpowder.
So if we capture the cave...
The Tsukasa Empire won't be
able to gain any more men!
And we get the ultimate weapons of science!
In the battle between the Kingdom
of Science and the Tsukasa Empire,
the victory condition isn't
the enemy's annihilation.
The winner is the one who
captures the miracle cave.
Tsukasa is going to bring all
of his forces against us.
We can pull it off, so long as we
have Senku's sorcer—science weapons.
They have around a hundred people, though.
We only have a dozen or so fighters.
We're way outnumbered.
That's why Taiju and the others
are working so hard right now.
The rest is up to the mentalist's big mouth.
We're going to bring them all to our side.
So much responsibility...
Oh, right.
Are you sure about that impersonation tactic?
Thanks to megafan Nikki-chan's
brutal instruction,
No! Not even close! Lillian's more
this way and that way and all that!
I can reproduce Lillian-chan's
voice perfectly.
How many times do I have to tell you?!
As long as Ukyo-chan doesn't
hear it with his crazy hearing.
I need to be careful not to let him find out.
Screw the rope.
Chrome-kun was scouting out
the miracle cave by himself.
He must be after the nitric acid.
All right. Let's get started.
It's the start of our last
mission before we make our
preemptive attack against the Tsukasa Empire.
Secret Mission
My adorable Steam Gorilla is
becoming even more adorable!
It's Lillian Weinberg!
It's her!
Hi! I'm Lillian Weinberg!
It's Lillian!
Hi, y'all! People of Japan...
Are you listening?
Listen up, people of Japan.
The training paid off.
He even got her subtle Southern accent.
Full points, Gen.
I'm in love.
The US has already restored civilization.
Everyone will be saved.
We're going to be saved!
Yes!
Wow.
Keep it down, everyone.
Remember, Tsukasa is rejecting
the powers of the past world.
Do you honestly think he's going
to play nice with the US military?
How is he going to reject anything?
Yeah!
The US is back!
As strong as Tsukasa might be,
if they come with guns, it's over.
That's correct.
But it's going to be a while before we,
the US military, get there.
We'd like to put an end to Tsukasa-kun's
destruction of the stone statues.
Until then, please cooperate
with Senku-kun's plans.
This is amazing! The plan to use Lillian's
voice is bringing in so many people!
Yeah.
It's a little scary how well it's going.
People are always in the most danger
when they get too used to
something and become complacent.
You look like you're having fun.
I'd like to hear that phone call, too.
Oh, no!
We can't let Ukyo hear her!
We don't have a choice anymore, though.
You're right.
My impersonation, trained by megafan
Nikki-sensei, versus Ukyo-chan's hearing.
It's a sudden-death duel!
Who am I talking to now?
This is Lillian Weinberg.
Wow.
It really is Lillian.
I would have lost, normally.
However, there's no vibration in your voice after singing so enthusiastically,
which is hard for you to imitate,
Gen.
Damn it! Not after we've come so far!
I messed up!
Just a second, Senku-chan.
Why did Ukyo-chan just
say all that in English?
It's because he didn't want
the others to listen in, right?
I've had my suspicions about
Ukyo-chan's odd behaviors.
When he found us at the grave site,
he chased after us by himself without
telling Tsukasa-chan or anyone else.
Good observation, mentalist.
The Gen versus Ukyo battle
is at one to one so far.
The person who slipped Chrome that battery...
You were the one who gave Chrome
that battery, weren't you, Ukyo?
I'm amazed.
You sure do catch on quickly.
If you'd come to help Chrome,
Senku, you'd be dead.
Don't get the wrong idea.
I'm not on your side.
I'm sure of that.
If you were, you never would have
captured Chrome to begin with.
I'm trying to figure things out, too.
I want to hear from you
what kind of people you are.
I saw your unbelievable secret mission.
I'm going to go make clothes.
All right.
I heard rattling in that bag...
Fragments of rock.
A lot of them.
What would she be using
them for if she's sewing?
Ba-ba-bam!
There, done.
She's that fast?
Everyone thinks she spends all night sewing.
If that's a ruse, what is she
doing with the rest of her time?
Today's is even more work than usual.
But that's okay.
I'm used to this kind of thing.
Wait... Those rocks...
The surfaces of the statues are weathered.
They won't revert to living cells.
That's why you break through
thin rocks when you're revived.
In other words, even for the
statues that Tsukasa's destroyed,
if they're reassembled before they
have time to weather, just maybe...
It's hard to believe, but if I'm right...
This is madness.
Even in this situation, you people
are trying to save all of humanity.
With the power of science.
I'm sorry!
That primitive melted through the rope!
We don't know how he did it.
Don't worry about what happened with Chrome.
It couldn't be helped.
By the way, what happened to Yo?
W-Well...
I'm done for!
I let Chrome get away! I'm screwed!
This is my last instruction.
Listen carefully.
A subordinate does exactly
as their superior says.
In exchange, all responsibility
lies with your superior, right?
That means me.
Lay all the blame for Chrome's escape on me.
Tell them, "Yo-kun fell into
the waterfall and died."
I'm outta here!
Time to reset my life again!
Later!
We might be able to save everyone,
including the people who've
been destroyed by Tsukasa,
if we put them back together like 3D puzzles.
You nailed it. Ten billion
points for you, Ukyo.
And, what?
Are you going to rat me
out to Tsukasa-sensei?
No.
Senku, I wouldn't mind cooperating with you.
On one condition.
It'd be really great if we could
get the help of Ukyo-chan
and his super hearing, but...
A condition, huh?
Want me to take over, Senku-chan?
Negotiation is a mentalist's job.
I don't have time to beat around the bush.
Get to the point.
What's your condition?
That's the worst thing you
can do in a negotiation!
Okay, fine.
My condition is simple.
No one can die.
I can never quite figure you out, Ukyo.
You're either a lovey-dovey idealist, or...
An idealist?
I'm the biggest coward there is.
You're...
Shishio Tsukasa.
Nice to meet you.
This former journalist told me all about you.
Former submarine sonar
operator, Saionji Ukyo-kun.
You were known for your exceptional
hearing and rational decision-making.
Ukyo, I need your help in order
to build a beautiful stone world.
The first time I saw Tsukasa destroy
a statue, I was nothing but sad.
I thought, "Why? How could you?"
Still, I wanted to keep the
revived from killing each other.
To that end, I turned a blind eye
to Tsukasa's statue destruction.
The statues are currently inanimate objects.
To not revive them doesn't constitute murder.
Or so I convinced myself,
with paper-thin reasoning.
I know I'm a helpless coward.
But I just can't bear
to see anyone else die.
Isn't that the last bastion of
our humanity in this damn world?
If you promise to produce zero
casualties, I'll cooperate with you.
But if you kill even one person...
Sounds great. I'm in.
No problem.
We've said we'd try to make it a
bloodless siege from the beginning.
All that's changed is that it's a
requirement instead of an ideal.
That's gonna be a pretty tough battle!
Thank you.
There's one thing I'm certain of now.
When Hyoga attacked your
village, he said this:
"Our men died because of
Senku's machinations."
That's wrong.
You weren't the one who did it.
It was Hyoga.
Tsukasa and Hyoga are both at the top,
but they are totally different creatures.
I can't sit on the fence any longer.
There's going to be bloodshed at some point.
These footprints are too clean.
It looks like the place was cleaned up first,
and then stamped it with footprints
to make it look visited.
Were people gathered here for some purpose?
I'd heard that some of our
men had come to the grave.
You, too?
No.
I'm here to pay respects to the late Yo.
I want him to return to nature.
Gozan, Yuki, Ren, Akashi,
Kyoichiro, Morito...
He should be with them.
Gozan? Yuki? Who are they?
Those are the names of our warriors
who died by poison gas when
we attacked the village.
Ah.
I'd like to bury what we have
left of Yo next to his friends.
It's the birth of our happy papercraft tank!
This is exhilarating!
Tank
acquired!!
Does this gun actually fire?
We don't even have gunpowder.
We're using a leather rupture disk.
A rup-what?
A burst diaphragm.
It explodes when it's expanded.
We'll break down water with electricity,
and when the oxygen and hydrogen
gas fills up the disk...
Ignition!
Ah, I see!
Even I understood how that one works.
Wait! It'll tear after the first use,
and then we can't use it anymore!
That's fine.
Any modern person who sees a tank
around will instantly lose morale.
That's for sure.
If we're going to take over
without any casualties,
we're going to need to make lightning
strike right after the tank attack.
Yeah.
Within the first half-minute of
the battle for the miracle cave,
we'll send in all of the
Kingdom of Science's forces.
And for that, we're going to need
the number one, most overpowered,
toughest man around...
It's strange.
I've never seen you before,
and yet I know your name...
Taiju.
Senku!
The Kingdom of Science
now has a full deck of cards.
It's the beginning of the final
battle against the Tsukasa Empire.
This is exhilarating!
According to the research of a Harvard
psychologist named Shawn Achor,
a human impulse lasts for
no more than 20 seconds.
The enemy will only have the instinct
to run away for the first 20 seconds of our raid.
After that, the enemy will come
to their senses and retaliate.
If we fight, people will die.
Everyone, brace yourselves!
The fate of all of humanity will
be decided in these 20 seconds!
Next Episode
This is a work of fiction, but the plants,
animals, and production methods described are based on reality.
Foraging and making things on your own accord is extremely dangerous
and, in some cases, illegal. Please do not imitate without expertise.